# INTRUSION-DETECTION-SYSTEM-USING-DEEP-LEARNING-ALGORITHMS
The IDS(Intrusion Detection System) is a software to provide security, that regularly analyses the network traffic and gives an alert signal whenever there is any suspicious event occuring. The intrusion Detection System concept was found thirty years ago, but it is in recent times that it has seen huge growth and popularity and many incorporationions of it in the network architectures. In the late 1980's the number of shared network enterprises, organizations started increasing all over
around the world, so they started incorporating the IDS into their systems to detect any malicious event. In the 1990s, the Intrusion Detection System was improved to handle a large amount of attacks. It examines the network by collecting the required amount of data and detecting the sensor 
nodes' abnormal behavior. Such detection methods are instrumental in identifying malicious or inappropriate access, hackers, masquerading software, etc.

An Intrusion Detection System(IDS) congregates information from the traffic within a computer system or network. It is called 'audit data. This 'audit data' is examined and studied or to detect any violation or abnormality in the system security policy, and if in any case, any kind of security breach is identified, a break is concluded. This infringment in security of the network is possible by any two ends, either from inside network or from outside of the network. There are two methods for detection, one is misuse detection, and the other is anomaly detection. In the first method, IDS examines the information it has collected and relates it to an extensive database of known attack patterns. The database contains attack patterns, and each packet is checked with attack patterns present in database, if it is a matched with any attack, an alert generated. The anomaly detection method aims to reveal the abnormal behavior of the system. The first method has a low False Positive Rate, but it can not give us new attack patterns. In the second method, new attacks can be identified but generating new rules is a very hard task.

In this project, a methodology for developing an Intrusion Detection System by applying deep learning algorithms is proposed. Pearson Correlation Coefficient is used to find features that are important from the KDD CUP 99 dataset. ANN Le..Artificial Neural Network and RNN i.e.,Recurrent Neural Network LSTM i.e.,Long Short-term memory algorithms are applied to KDD CUP 99 datastet for Intrusion detection. The efficiency is measured by calculating accuracy,

precision and recall as the metrics.

